{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 "The Vikings: A History," by Robert Ferguson, 2010 Penguin Press\par
Preceding numbers refer to pages on which these citations or reflections are found.\par
\b CHAPTER 1 THE OSEBERG SHIP\b0\par
6: Islendingabok - Ari Thorgilsson\par
The Icelandic Book of Settlement / Names\par
\par
7: Gesta Hammaburgensis - Adam of Bremen\par
"Deeds of the Archbishops of the Church of Hamburg"\par
\par
8: Runes so resemble glacial striations, that in some cases, hundreds of years and handfuls of scholars have been tricked into attempts at translating raw stone, or have dismissed eroded runes as meaningless raw stone.\par
* This shall be a visual motif.\par
\par
8: In doing deep-dives on Scandi pronunciation and orthography, two words to remember are "diacritics" and "ligatures."\par
* An example of a diacritic is the umlaut "\'fc" or the accent aigu \'e9. Ligatures are things like \'e6. Subscript kana in Japanese are similar to a ligature.\par
\par
9: Although their depictions are romantic, some Victorian-era painters who established our popular conceptions:\par
Johannes Flintoe; (Danish) seems to be the least-skilled of the three\par
Peter Nicolai Arbo; (Norwegian) the man behind the fabulous "The Wild Hunt of Odin"\par
Anker Lund; (Danish) good scene-setting and lighting reminds me of a classier and more measured Frank Frazetta.\par
\par
9: Important historical finds:\par
-\b Tune ship\b0 : wooden grave-chamber built to resemble the ship's tent.\par
-\b Gokstad ship \b0 "pituitary adenoma had caused the [honored dead] to produce much more growth-hormone than normal."\par
The enemy had to kill this man through a multi-angle attack, to his sides and rear, and they focused on his legs, and avoided everything else. Knee, thigh, then ankle hits were targeted to bring him down. Both sharp and blunt weapons were used.\par
He was buried with 12 horses, 6 dogs, five beds, three sub-vessel boats, a pot, a barrel, buckets, 64 shields, AND A PEACOCK.\par
(peacock imported from Constantinople via Kiev, I assume)\par
-\b Oserberg ship\b0 . Two female occupants, featuring many curious cultural items. Page 35 for further description.\par
\par
12: "A wooden chest that had lain undisturbed for 1000 years opened smoothly on its hinges at the first attempt." Marvelous craft.\par
What is the "tiller" of a ship?\par
\par
15: INTERIOR / HOME-GOODS / DECORATION\par
Blankets - white wool with red patterns\par
Woven strip-decorations festooned the walls\par
Metal rattles\par
Animal-head posts\par
Viking Saddles\par
Combs (EVERYONE had combs; even Viking warriors had comb-cases attached to their belts) I imagine beard-grooming was as big a thing for men as general hair-grooming was for women. Recalls India.\par
Black-and-Yellow a popular motif.\par
\par
4-5 dogs, 15 horses slaughtered; their blood was used to WASH the foredeck.\par
Burial could take 4 months to accomplish.\par
\par
17: The account of Ibn Fadlan, which must have inspired the opening scenes in The 13th Warrior, of the slave-girl to be sacrificed to accompany her master into the afterlife:\par
"Behold, I see my father and mother.\par
I see all my dead relatives seated.\par
I see my master seated in Paradise\par
And Paradise is beautiful and green;\par
With him are men and boy-servants.\par
He calls me.\par
Take me to him."\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 2 THE CULTURE OF NORTHERN HEATHENDOM\b0\par
20: 2 Great Sources of Old Norse Poetry\par
1. Prose Edda:\par
\tab a) The Sayings of the High One\par
\tab b) Grimnir's Sayings\par
\tab c) Vafthrudnir's Sayings\par
\tab d) The Seeress' Prophecy\par
2. Codex Regius > Poetic Edda\par
\par
22: There are two simultaneous, conflicting accounts of the origin of the \'c6sir and the world.\par
Gylgaginning vs. Ynglingsaga\par
* I wonder if "Yngling" is what inspired the surname / beer brand Yeungling...\par
\par
Sky-charger, none larger:\par
Stone-shaker; Stone-shaper:\par
Milk flow-er; Strength-grower:\par
How shall we know her?\par
To creation she provided like our gentle heifers,\par
But she was very first of things.\par
What shall we name her?\par
Her name is Audhumla.\par
\par
"The Lay of the Spear / The Lay of the Halberd" provides a good distinction between Thor and Odin with respect to war.\par
* What I draw from that decision, to assign different roles and aspects to war, is the intertwining of aggression and spirit.\par
Unstable or wild aggression, by itself, can easily be bribed, diverted, distracted, or frightened back into submission. A steady determination and discipline is necessary to guide aggression through all challenges to a favorable conclusion. That steadiness and discipline are the ideal distinction of aristocrats.\par
Likewise, I see a parallel distinction between Ares and Athena.\par
\par
23: "Learning, knowledge, and progress had to be fought-for and suffered-for."\par
* The existence of this Odin reflects the Norse desire to explore and see what was beyond their close-in wintry fjords, across the promising seas and the inner-expanse of their own minds and personalities. (I assumed this note was from the book, but apparently I wrote it and forgot.)\par
\par
26: The Sun is Odin's eye, perhaps.\par
Castor and Pollux are eyes of a giant who earned immortality.\par
Polaris is a nail in Thor's head from a tough duel against a Giant; it has nailed Yggdrasil in place, thus the sky wheels around it.\par
\par
26-27: Easily subversive lines from Ferguson: "That the gods of Asgard were willing to engage in such fraught unions with their enemies underscores Midgard's perception that social and technological advances could only be achieved by risk-taking."\par
*We will only achieve new levels of progress by installing a Little Mogadishu!\par
Scandinavian kings repeatedly claimed descent from a union of Frey and a giantess.\par
* No coincidence that many origin-mythologies of notably tough and tenacious-environment peoples, from Tibet to Scandinavia, feature a first great-mother who is built like a brick house. The stick-bodied woman is a meme peddled in soft times.\par
\par
Hither an erudite lexicon: "Enneadic." "Euhemeric."\par
Enneadic "A group or set of nine."\par
Euhemeric: "A theory attributing the origin of gods to the deification of historical heroes."\par
\par
28: The "binding and encompassing" ring gives the shape sacrality for oaths, pledges, and seals.\par
Also has an "eternal recurrence" implication, as frequently appears across civilizations.\par
\par
Three basic elements for the station of a chieftain-priest:\par
1) Ring (to be worn during presidence)\par
2) Bowl (to hold blood or other sacrificial elements)\par
3) Twig (to sprinkle to blood over a congregation: to bind the congregation by a common element, or to create oracular patterns, reading messages in how the drops lay.)\par
\par
29: Ridiculously intense scenes of devotion at the Uppsala temple. Much sacrifice, including humans, by hanging.\par
Apparently, songs were sun that "were... so obscene [that Adam of Bremen] declined to record them."\par
Hammars Picture-Stone. A scene wherein a young tree is bent back, then sprung loose, to jerk a noosed-man into the air to hang.\par
\par
30: According to Ibn Fadlan, an old woman named "The Angel of Death" strangled somehow, then stabbed in some manner, the slave-girl accompanying the dead master.\par
Some slave-sacrifices were bound and decapitated. Recognizably, they had the top of their skulls cut off. (Wouldn't that be difficult?)\par
\par
Feasts were also occasions to rule on law, not only the yearly Thing.\par
\par
Viking ethics were largely predicated on a polarity of Honor and Shame.\par
"That bad actions were not always the work of bad people were recognized," thus you have an approximation of "manslaughter."\par
\par
31 The jurisdiction of the Thing at Gula was from Stad down to Egersund.\par
Frosta-thing: Trondelag region\par
\par
Thieving is worse than robbery; at least robbery is face-to-face.\par
\par
32: Four grades of oaths, which refer to the number of witnesses required from each party:\par
one-fold\par
two-fold\par
five-fold\par
eleven-fold.\par
- For the gravest cases, TWELVE-FOLD maximum is required. Murder-cases are twelve-fold.\par
Each witness to an oath or a criminal case is essentially just a character-witness.\par
\par
34: Shape-shifting forms oft-attested:\par
- fish\par
- bird\par
- snake\par
- "beast" (four-legged animal?)\par
Ferguson describes the correct Berserk interpretation: "...Wild men able to kill with one blow... disdaining the use of armor and in their ecstatic fury impervious to all harm."\par
\par
*It seems "sorcery" might more accurately be rendered as "sourcery;" *source*-ery\par
"Sorcerer" could occupy a space between "wizard" and "shaman." It seems sorcerors are more beholden or in-service to some deep entity, which is their "source." Whereas a wizard is a bit more individualistic or a self-starter.\par
There is an association with too-strong adherence to the ways of magic, and womanliness. Homosexual link possible. "Soft tinkling of bells, womanly dancing." Magic is aerie, and women rely much on aires, and are generally swept up and away by aires. Low-class women revel in aires of defiance or imposition.\par
\par
35: "Historia Norwegie" text. If it is to be trusted, a wild account of ridiculous shamanistic practice. "He at last fell to the ground, as black as an Ethopian and foaming at the mouth."\par
Priest / Shaman equipment recovered from Oseberg ship:\par
- A hoop or circular sieve, decorated with whales, reindeer, and ski-sledges on its outer band.\line - Cannabis sativa\par
- Iron rattle (three components. First, two resemble wands or drum-sticks with hooked ends. Third, a straight rod with loop-eyes at each end. You hook the hooked-ends of the wands into the loops of the straight rod, and pull the assembly taut, holding everything together against each other. Little rings dangle from the straight rod. Shake the whole assembled device.) There are pictures of it on the Internet if my description is lacking.\par
\par
* What is a horse-fight?\par
VIKING-AGE HORSES: not like ours. They have shorter backs and thicker necks. Their height is just under two meters.\par
Their proportions allow a special gait that typical modern horses cannot exhibit. The special gait is called "tolting," or "tolt."\par
*There are YouTube videos of people tolting with Icelanding horses. It looks silly, like a cartoon, or like a person speed-walking. However, it also looks like a smooth ride, and perhaps faster than a horse walking normally.\par
Viking horse-bits are "snaffle-bits." No stirrups.\par
\par
37-38: Hilarious scene of a sacred horse-penis named "Volsi." Had to re-read this paragraph several times, interrupting myself with chuckles.\par
Scene of public and ritual bestiality by a king in Ulster, transforming himself into, or taking on a virile aspect of, a stallion.\par
Then the king bathes in the blood of the mare he copulated with, and his entire party eats her meat.\par
Again... these things may or may not have actually happened.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 3 THE CAUSES OF THE VIKING AGE\par
\b0 41: A Viking longship at sea could be seen some 18 nautical miles away in good visibility. "With a favorable wind, that distance could be covered in about an hour."\par
\par
\b -----------------------------------------------HAUNTING CULTURAL PARALLEL TO OUR OWN TIMES--------------------------------------------------\par
\b0 43: "Are these not the people whose terror threatens us, yet you want to copy their hair?" - Bishop Alcuin, to King Ethelred\par
Another example, not from Alcuin but an anonymous author:\par
"Loving the practices of Heathen men who begrudge you life, \b and in so doing show by such evil habits that you despise your race and your ancestors\b0 ." Man I can't wait to get Lil' Dingey's latest album, yea guuurl, tear that statue down! Systems of Oppression!\par
Corruption among supposed moral authorities:  Monks invited "actors and voluptuaries" to play musical renditions of Beowulf at the dinner-table, rather than invite the poor. Monks were often drunk at all hours.\par
\par
* A defining characteristic of The Masses is a refusal, even indignation, toward recognizing patterns. To them, independent thought is anti-social.\par
This anonymous denouncer is obtuse himself, however. Some of the imitators lack love for their own race, yes, but that is only the "push," not the "pull." The implicit "pull" is that their own race must be lacking some pulse of life or expressiveness, forcing people to look outside their own and to imitate outsiders. That anonymous critic above calls for a return to devotional piety, but something about those practices were exactly the root of the cultural exodus.\par
That is the final reason why these excerpts resonate with me. Neither the bovine masses, nor the shrill critics, step back to look at bigger pictures. Self-destruction and shouting is all it amounts to.\par
\b --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\b0\par
43: I assume you've read Sir John Glubb's essay, "The Decline of Empires and The Struggle for Survival."\par
Thus, I noticed how Ferguson mentions a 300-year pattern between the original Britons, the Anglo-Saxon invasion, and the inaugural Viking raids. Each moment before the next invasion was marked by decadence.\par
"Aetiology:" the cause, set of causes, or manner of causation of a disease or condition.\par
\par
45: Coal-biter: "from their habit of idling away the days between adventures at home by the family longfire."\par
Warband-structure: loyalty for rewards. Basically mercenaries.\par
Stadir = place\par
\par
47: average population density of Viking-age Scandinavia: 1-2 people per square kilometer\par
Common means of subsistence / employment:\par
- reindeer farming\tab -extortion / protection-racket / extracting tribute from nomads\par
- whaling\tab - herring-fishing\tab\tab -elk-trapping\par
\par
50: Irmensul: a sacred wood pillar, or tree, that was most-holy at the primary Danish-Saxon Pagan shrine. Destroyed by Charles the Great / Charles Magnus / Charlemagne.\par
*Why do we use the obfuscatory "Charlemagne" when "Charles Magnus" or "Charles the Great" is so much more informative or relatable? The man was an agent of the Catholic Church Militant.\par
\par
51: Frankish defeat at S\'fcntel prompted Charles to baptize, then execute, 4500 Saxon prisoners... and then on THREE separate occasions, launch a resettlement program of ~7000 Saxons.\par
* 1960's bussing / 1860's Reconstruction Era, but more honest about the intentions.\par
"Capitulary:" a royal ordinance under the Merovingians (Charles' Dynasty).\par
"Heathens were described as less than fully human,... no penance was payable for the killing of one."\par
* Basically, where the technocracy wants to place Whites.\par
\par
There were 33 distinct campaigns against the Germanic heathens, the Saxons. ...Imagine if all these efforts and resources had gone toward retaking Spain from the Muslims. Europe might have re-included North Africa as its presumptive domain, and not as a "colonial holding."\par
We can view the Saxon diaspora caused by Charles as a contributor to the Viking Age. Fitting turnabout, that his victims return to harry his dynasty to extinction. (Page 104, Godfrid vs Charles the Fat)\par
\par
55: Merovingian Dynasty seems to have been the good-time for NPC Continental Euros. Stability, structure.\par
56: Vikings drowned monks while mocking baptism.\par
\par
*700-900, or "Late Antiquity," was our latest enormous pivot, the latest spiritual pivot, toward the Christian arc, which having reached its apex, is still arcing down into its conclusion.\par
I think there is a good reason why pop-media and public curricula avoids getting too deep into this period. It would too greatly parallel the projects launched in the 1960's, and it would also draw attention to the vital precursor to the Christian arc.\par
It is always the High using the Low against the Middle.\par
The spiritual struggle, which creates the physical, is the convince the Middle to uphold themselves to the discipline of the High, while retaining the vitality of the Low.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 4 THE DEVASTATION OF ALL THE ISLANDS OF BRITAIN BY THE HEATHENS\b0\par
58: *Emphasize the swelling, billowing, and fluttering of the sail.\par
\par
Viking Boat-building tools:\par
- chisels\tab\tab - long-headed cutting-axe \tab - Drill (held against chest, turned by handles)\par
- hammers\tab - Nail-Seeker\par
- "Bearding Axe"\tab - Club+Wedge to split logs\par
\par
59: Sails made of wool, reinforced with leather bands\par
* Look into how wool is gathered, spun, and woven\par
"Mast-Fish" socket-assembly\par
\par
*Aha, the etymology for "starboard." It is a bastardization of the word "styrbord," which is the Norse rendition of "steer-board" or "steer-border." So named, because that is the side where a steering oar was mounted. As people are generally right handed, it was on the right-hand side of the ship. "Styrbord-side" is right-hand side.\par
Vikings were compelled to use steer-boards instead of rudders, in order to achieve the marvelously shallow draft, and thus float deep into enemy territory via rivers.\par
\par
60: Look up these ships to generate a template, for Viking ship classification.\par
1. Knarr: Small, but ocean-going. An open cargo bay, but with fore- and aft-castle platforms.\par
2. Skuldelev #2\par
3. Skuldelev #3\par
4. Skuldelev #5: "Snekke" (Snake) relatable to a SEAL Zodiac; typically called a "cutter" in Viking-literature, a squad-size insertion boat.\par
5. Skuldelev #6: High-sided fishing-boat / ferry-boar\par
A "Draco" or "Dragon" is a large long-ship. It serves like our LHD. It's the iconic long-ship.\par
\par
You can create ligatures for ship construction using the filter-feeding bones from whales. How?\par
Caulking is done via:\par
- moss\tab\tab - tar\tab\tab - cow or horse hairs\par
"Reefed" sails: partially or fully rolled back in on itself. This makes them smaller but still provides some lift. Done in rough weather, for safety.\par
* how did people make ropes in the Viking era?\par
* Look up the Wolin sun-compass recovered in 2002.\par
\par
75-76: The Irish relation to the Vikings reflects a similar pattern to today. Regions or provinces disunited, and oftentimes even collaborating with the foreigner; divide-and-conquer self-inflicted.\par
Ratio of Viking raids to Irish retaliation: about 8 : 1\par
Specifically it was ~83 : ~10\par
\par
80: "The Southern Isles" are the Hebrides. S\lang1033\'fa\lang9 threyjar.\par
\par
Hlymrekr - Limerick: Maybe the "Irish Limerick" is related to pity skaldic poems?\par
Vethrafj\'f6rth - Waterford\par
Veigsfj\'f6rth - Wexford\par
Vikingalo - Wicklow\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 5 THE VIKINGS IN THE CAROLINGIAN EMPIRE\b0\par
85: The Daneverke: uncharacteristically extensive project. A fortified ditch-and-wall, 14km long, passing from West Jutland, through Hedeby, to Schleswig. Great Wall of Denmark, I suppose.\par
\par
90: Lothar, a Carolingian King, attempts to buy off Klak-Harald. Klak-Harald had nominally accepted Christianity in exchange for ally-status with the Carolingians, who had supported Klak-Harald in retaking the Danish throne. However, since Klak-Harald failed to retake the throne, he turned to pirating around modern-day Holland... which was part of the Carolingian realm. The Carolingians appeased him by granting him the province of Walcheren... which was among the places he devastated. The "Annals of St. Bertin" remark:\par
"An utterly detestable crime, that those who had brough evil on Christians should be given power over the lands and people of Christians, and over the very churches of Christ; that the persecutors of the Christian faith should be set up as lords over Christians, and Christian-folk have to serve men who worshipped demons."\par
* It is normal for the power-elite of a degenerate empire to have no principle and no human sense, no human awareness... no sense or awareness aside from each man pursuing his individual comfort and convenience. So the declining emperor signs whatever he must, if it will just allow him to live out his remaining days in pleasure.\par
\par
97: Birka - one of the most important Viking trade hubs, and an early Christian foothold. Gave access to Constantinople, with a 5-day sail across the Baltic in either direction, to Kievan territory.\par
\par
97-98: Birka fortifications: semi-circular ramparts (from shore to shore)\par
2 tiers of terraces (hill-fort)\par
underwater stone wall / pallisade, forming a natural shoal and barrier-reef. Forced ships to sail completely out in front of the port, some distance away, before approaching.\par
The Warriors' Hall had "double-vaulted walls." 2 entrances, 2 rooms, a fireplace in each room. 19m long, 9.5m wide.\par
So, the Warriors' Hall in Birka was about as long as a long-ship, but twice as wide.\par
\b MUCH\b0  White slavery in Birka.\par
* Race has always been a lesser-unifier, a weaker-unifier, than ethnicity or religion. I believe this is because race is too broad. For people to take motivation or inspiration in something, it must have \b ONE\b0  in every aspect. One dress, one menu, one language. Having an in-group and out-group is not enough. Perfect arguments, perfect beauty, all vanish before normies. Normies just want \b ONE\b0 . There is no room inside them for anything beyond One.\par
Only autists and imaginative people can feel moved by broad abstraction. Such people are statistically insignificant. Even if they become the brain, they will never be the meat.\par
Racial self-sabotage is a historical constant in all races, as well. Only the manner of the self-sabotage varies.\par
\par
101: Of all the cross-pendants unearthed from the Birka ruins, they were found in female tombs and graves.\par
* Christianity has always seemed a feminine or feminizing religion. To me, this seems gut-obvious. I haven't explored this beyond my intuition.\par
I suppose Nietzsche has already explored this, and so has Evola.\par
\par
102: The massive presence of Vikings up and down the Seine river, having hoards upon hoards of silver showered upon them by Frankish lords saying "please leave me alone," or "bother that other guy instead" ... and yet, also the utter lack of pure Scandinavian culture or genetics beyond Scandinavia, drives home to me how battle-prowess or badassery DOES NOT MATTER if you cannot, then, exponentially settle your conquest. Prowess and badassery dies with you. Beauty dies with you. EVERTYHING you lay waste in your lifetime will return like a weed if you have no descendents.\par
\par
104: "The end of the Carolingian dynasty could not be far away when Charlemagne's capital, the seat of power in what had once been an unassailable empire, could not be protected against invaders. Charles the Fat appeared willing to head a major attempt to get rid of the menace before it was too late. An army of Franks, Bavarians, Alemans, Thuringians, and Saxons, large enough 'to be feared by any enemy, if it had a suitable leader and one it agreed on', marched on the Vikings' fortification of Asselt. Things seemed to be going the way of this besieging force when, to the annalist's disgust, Charles was persuaded to offer terms to Godfrid - 'the emperor received him as if he were a friend and made peace with him; and hostages were exchanged'. To show their sincerity, the Vikings gave what was obviously a familiar signal, and 'hoisted a shield on high after their fashion and threw open the doors of their fortress'. Curious... Charles's soldiers entered the camp, at which the Vikings 'reverted to their usual treacherousness', lowered the shield, closed the gates and killed or captured the trapped soldiers. Charles's position may have been weaker than the annalist knew. (FERGUSON COPE) Instead of avenging the slaughter, the emperor then 'raised the aforementioned Godfrid from the baptismal font, and made the man who before had been the greatest enemy and traitor to his kingdom into a co-ruler over it'. Godfrid was given territories and benefices previously handed over, by Louis the Pious, to Klak-Harald and his brother Rorik. Using money obtained from Church funds, Charles also paid [Godfrid's] army a large sum of money. To complete their humiliation, the Franks had to look on as the Vikings loaded their ships with booty and hundreds of captives for sale as slaves... Godfrid was given Gisela, a daughter of Lothar II, king of Lotharingia."\par
* I had thought I'd seen true, pure cuckery before. I've seen white husbands pledge to raise a wife's unexpected black baby, I've seen Molly Tibbet's parents, after their migrant farm-workers raped and murdered Molly and jammed a corncob into her corpse's vagina, adopt one of the migrants' kids, and call for tolerance and to keep enjoying tacos. I thought I couldn't be disgusted any further. Then I read about Charles the Fat.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 6 ACROSS THE BALTIC\b0\par
109: Roslagen - coastal stretch north of Stockholm; possible origin of "Rus."\par
Sigtuna - important Swedish location\par
\par
110: From the tale of Vladimir's conversion, it seems that many of the elite no longer took Paganism seriously.\par
* Then again, do the elites generally take any principle seriously? If they've reached their seat of power through unscrupulous means, then I naturally assume they respect nothing.\par
\par
111: Kiev existed as an entity during Egil's time.\par
Seeburg = Grobin\par
Miklag\'e5rd = Constantinople\par
The highway to Constantinople:\par
\tab Dvina, Dneiper, Volga, Volkhov, Neva, Lake Lagoda\par
Staraja Ladoga was the Birka in the East.\par
\par
119: An account of a successful attack on Constantinople, Helgi (Oleg) the Wise ordered wheels built and attached to his boats, turning them into sail-assisted pre-industrial APC's.\par
\par
129-130: Colorful and interesting tale of how Russia became Orthodox: "Vladimir, however, realized which way the political wind was blowing... Representatives of each faith were invited to his court to speak in defence and praise of their faith. Vladimir was attracted by the promise of the seventy-two virgins he would enjoy in the next life, but less enthusiastic about the Islamic injunction in this one against eating pork and drinking wine. 'Drinking is the joy of the Rus,' he is said to have objected. 'We cannot exist without that pleasure.' Emissaries of the Pope arrived from Germany and found their insistence on the importance of fasting similarly unpopular. The Jewish Khazars' tale of the diaspora seemed to him a poor advertisement for their fath and Judaism too was rejected. By the account given in the Russian Primary Chronicle, the apologist for the Byzantine Christianity was given a lengthier hearing than the others, and it was he who succeeded in the end."\par
* I assume Vladimir had intended to accept Eastern Roman Orthodoxy from the start.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 7: THE DANELAW 1: OCCUPATION\b0\par
138: Amusing subterfuge and return of sacred oath-ring.\par
Guthrum promised to leave Wessex, but following the advice of a Norse saying of the High One, "speak fairly but think falsely," to "a man you don't trust." In this case, the English King Alfed.\par
So Guthrum did leave his location, but moved deeper, into Exeter.\par
\par
140: This Guthrum took the christened name Athelstan, but this is not the Athelstan of Egil's Saga. The Athelstan of Egil's Saga is two generations later.\par
\par
146: A tomb or ossuary "stacked in charnel fashion." Charnel fashion: close-stacked, lined up. Oftentimes bodyparts are categorized. A neat grid-wall of femurs, a neat grid-wall of skulls, etc.\par
\par
148: Pippin II of Aquitaine switche sides to fight alongside the Vikings, and even renounced Christ to worship Odin.\par
* Search "Repton excavation."\par
Another trade-hub: Sciringsheal = Kaupang\par
\par
152: Sami-style rope made of whaleskin and sealskin.\par
Whalebone important. Reindeer livestock important.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 8: THE SETTLEMENT OF ICELAND\b0\par
158: 60 years to fully settle Iceland.\par
\par
Avaldsness: original seat of Harald's power.\par
\par
158: Ferguson explains the surprise manner of Thorstein killing Steinar's thrall, Thrand, as representing the suspension of ethics or honor-code against uppity slaves.\par
\par
164: Merely sponsoring anybody within a target-population is enough to inspire a controversy and a political wedge in the target-population.\par
\par
165: Lawspeaker = Judge, Orator, Oracle.\par
L\'f6gretta: a Thing's legislative body.\par
The ring you wear on your arm to the Thing, as a chief, must have a sacrificial beast's blood on it.\par
Solfatara: ?\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 13: A PIECE OF HORSE'S LIVER - THE PRAGMATIC CHRISTIANITY OF H\'c5KON THE GOOD\b0\par
263: ~936 AD = Egil Chapter 62\par
\par
264: Jelling Stone: "Norway's birth certificate."\par
\par
265: Viking-age Scandinavians divided into Winter / Summer halves.\par
Seasons demarcated / Quarters demarcated by feasts.\par
Autumnal sacrifice starts the year.\par
"Frey's game" may be a euphemism for sex.\par
\par
268: ~955 AD onwards, Erik Bloodaxe / Gunnhildassons raided Haakon's territory; Haakon died in battle ~960\par
\par
In so many of the inter-faith couple stories, the woman is the Christian. The Page 129 descriptions featured at least three examples.\par
\par
273: 954 AD Erik Blood-Axe is expelled from York.\par
\par
277: H\'e5kon "the Bad" ... did Thomas Rowsell of Survive the Jive ever mention H\'e5kon's sacrifice of his son to Thorgerdr Holgabrudr?\par
\par
278: Olaf Tryggvasson ... a massacring piece of shit. Piss on his grave.\par
\par
DISCREPANCY: On Pg. 39, "H\'e5kon the Bad, a Norwegian Earl of Lade, sacrificed his nine year old son Erling to a personal goddess, Thorgerdr Holgabrudr."\par
yet, on Pg. 272, "...concerning H\'e5kon's sacrifice of his seven year old son Erling for success in battle."\par
and an excerpt from the Jomsvikings Saga: "Finally he offers her his son, whose name was Erling and who was seven years old."\par
So, I'm inclined to think seven years is the correct age. Either way, I've discovered this error in the book.\par
\par
* Chapter 13 answers the question of how Christianity won over Paganism.\par
Olaf grew rich with mercenary power, skimming fat off the backs of the soft & decadent English & French. All the masterless Vikings of the regional seas clustered around him.\par
With THIS super-force, he called in further networks from the land, and launched a Viking invasion against the Viking homeland itself. Much slaughter and terror.\par
He wanted the centralization of Christianity, and he seated himself in the center.\par
\par
\b CHAPTER 15: RAGNAR\'d6K IN ICELAND\b0\par
298: "Heathen poets impugned the manhood of Christians, and Christian poets mocked the Heathens for their superstition and stupidity."\par
"On occasion when Thorvald and Fredrik were preaching in the west of the country, a priestess named Fridgerd enacted a sacrificial ceremony within hearing distance of the two. Thorvald captured his disappointment in verse:\par
299:\tab\tab I preached the precious faith,\par
\tab\tab No man paid heed to me;\par
\tab\tab We got scorn from the sprinkler\par
\tab\tab --priest's son-- of blood-dripped branch.\par
\tab\tab And without any sense,\par
\tab\tab Old troll-wife against poet\par
\tab\tab --may God crush the priestess--\par
\tab\tab Shrilled at the heathen altar."\par
Though they allocated Thorvald the active and less-shameful position, in putative acts of male sexual intercourse involving Bishop Fredrik, the Nid (Viking diss-track) verses composed about him had so provoked Thorvald that he killed two of his tormentors, for which he was outlawed and driven from Iceland.\par
Kristni Saga credits Olaf Tryggvasson, that massacrist mercenary who took over upper Scandinavia from H\'e5kon "the Bad," and wrought Christianity through terror, with sending Thorvald to Iceland in the first place. Thorvald also appears in the contemporary "Tale of Thorvald Chatterbox."\par
\par
300-301: useful comparison of socio-political difference in dynamics and mechanisms between Euro-Heathen and Euro-Christian, the public / private split runs down different lines, has different things on either side.\par
I desire a comparison between Euro-Heathen and Japanese-Heathen. Japanese-Heathen seems to be just as capable of centralizing-efficiency as Christianity. I wonder if this is due to their East Asian neurology.\par
If a slip-space portal deposited Tokugawa Japan beside Scandinavia, would we have seen a Viking-Samurai alliance against Christian Europe? To uphold the mutual territorial integrity of Old Gods?\par
Quick, somebody call up the Creative Assembly or Paradox Games modding communities...\par
\par
Thor was specifically credited with raising the storm that stranded Olaf's next Christian mission to Iceland. A woman-poet named Steinun composed this poem to commemorate it:\par
"Thor drew Thvinnill's animal,\par
Thangbrand's long-shop, from land,\par
Shook the prow's horse and hit it,\par
and hurled it against the sand.\par
...\par
The slayer of giantess-son\par
Broke the seagull's place.\par
Christ was not watching, when\par
The wave-raven drank at the prows.\par
Small guard I think God held\par
--if any--over Gylfi's reindeer."\par
\par
There isn't enough rose-root ointment in the world to cure that burn.\par
Such a time, when the sexes were so united in defense of their own culture. How refreshing...\par
\par
303: Hjalti, a local chief's son, and collaborator with Olaf, fired back from atop a Law-Rock during an All-Thing one day:\par
"I don't mean to mock the gods,\par
but Freyja seems to me a bitch."\par
\par
305: In the end, Olaf Tryggvasson got his way by holding hostage several members of Iceland chrieftans' families.\par
Such an "Elite" does not sacrifice. Such an "Elite" does not lead. The only necessity for such an "Elite" is to collect luxuries.\par
As Runolf accepts baptism, which involves a dollop of salt on the tongue: "Now we're teaching the old gothi to nibble on the salt," referencing horse-rearing. Contemptuous.\par
\par
323: Olaf Tryggvasson only lived 2-3 months after Iceland converted. How glorious if they'd held out instead...\par
307-308: Theories to find the source of the Ragnar\'f6k prophecy. A massive volcanic eruption throwing up a global ash cloud, lowering the global temperature a few degrees for decades, deepening weather swings.\par
\par
309: "A set of gods was abandoned and an entire cultural heritage condemned to obsolescence at the insistence of a handful of fanatics."\par
* So it ever is.\par
\par
312: Chapter 56 of Egil's Saga, when Egil becomes "sullen," and puts his cloak over his head, this matches. Egil was drawing inspiration via makeshift isolation-pod, using a cloak over his head.\par
Thorgeir the Law-Speaker.\par
Hallfred Ottarson: look into him.\par
}
 